Add upgrade bytes tutorial (#1247)
ava-labs/avalanche-docs: docs/subnets/how-to-upgrade.md

> # How To Upgrade Your Subnet-EVM

Reviewer: We need to be more specific with the naming here. `How to Upgrade Your Subnet-EVM Precompile Configuration`

## Upgrading a Subnet

> You can parametrize Subnet-EVM based Subnets after deployment by enabling and disabling precompiles.

Reviewer: Parametrize isn't the right word here. Customize?

> To do this, create a `upgrade.json` file and place in the appropriate directory. 

Reviewer: also `a` -> `an`

This page is a tutorial on how to perform such network upgrades. It's specific for Subnet-EVM upgrades.

[Upgrade a Subnet](./subnet-upgrade) 
describes all the background information required regarding Subnet upgrades.

:::warning

It's very important that you read and understood the previously linked document. 
Failing to do so can potentially grind your network to a halt.

:::

This tutorial assumes that you already 
[installed](./install-avalanche-cli) Avalanche-CLI.

> It also uses `testSubnet` as a hypothetical Subnet name throughout.

Reviewer: I would say that it assumes you have already created and deployed a subnet called `testSubnet`.

```

Again, it makes no sense to try the upgrade command if the Subnet doesn't exist. 
If that's the case, please go ahead and 
[create](./build-first-subnet) the Subnet first.

If the Subnet definition exists, the tool launches a wizard.
It may feel a bit redundant, but you first see some warnings, to draw focus to the dangers involved:

```shell
avalanche subnet upgrade generate testSubnet       
Performing a network upgrade requires coordinating the upgrade network-wide.
A network upgrade changes the rule set used to process and verify blocks, such that any node that 
upgrades incorrectly or fails to upgrade by the time that upgrade goes into effect may become 
out of sync with the rest of the network.

Any mistakes in configuring network upgrades or coordinating them on validators may cause the 
network to halt and recovering may be difficult.
Please consult 
https://docs.avax.network/subnets/customize-a-subnet#network-upgrades-enabledisable-precompiles 
for more information
Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ← 
? Press [Enter] to continue, or abort by choosing 'no': 
  ▸ Yes
    No
```

Go ahead and select `Yes` if you understood everything and you agree.

> You see a last note, before the actual configuration wizard starts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The follow messages will be shown before the actual configuration wizard starts:
```

Author: This will result in the "passive voice" warning...I already did a pass yesterday eliminating all passive voice parts in the PR

```shell
Avalanchego and this tool support configuring multiple precompiles. 
However, we suggest to only configure one per upgrade.

Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ← 
? Select the precompile to configure: 
  ▸ Contract Deployment Allow List
    Manage Fee Settings
    Native Minting
    Transaction Allow List
```

Refer to [Precompiles](./customize-a-subnet#precompiles) 
for a description of available precompiles and how to configure them. 

> Make sure you understand Precompiles thoroughly and how to configure them before 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure you understand precompiles thoroughly and how to configure them before 
```

attempting to continue.

For every precompile in the list, the wizard guides you to provide correct

> information, prompting relevant questions. For the sake of this tutorial, select

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
information by prompting relevant questions. For the sake of this tutorial, select
```

> `Transaction Allow List`. [Restricting Who Can Submit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Transaction Allow List`. The doc [Restricting Who Can Submit
```

Transactions](./customize-a-subnet#restricting-who-can-submit-transactions)
describes what this precompile is about.

```shell
✔ Transaction Allow List 
Set parameters for the "Manage Fee Settings" precompile
Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ← 
? When should the precompile be activated?: 
  ▸ In 5 minutes
    In 1 day
    In 1 week
    In 2 weeks
    Custom
```

This is actually common to all precompiles: they require an 
activation timestamp.
If you think about it, it makes sense: you want a synchronized activation of your precompile.

> So think for a moment about to what you want to set the activation timestamp to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So think for a moment about when you want to set the activation timestamp to.
```

> You can select one of the suggested times in the future, or you can select a custom one.\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can select one of the suggested times in the future, or you can pick a custom one.
```

Reviewer: there's also a trailing `\`

> Select `Custom` here, and see the format required:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After picking `Custom`, it shows the following prompts:
```

```shell
✔ Custom
✗ Enter the block activation UTC datetime in 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS' format: 
```

The format is `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`, therefore `2023-03-31 14:00:00` would be a valid timestamp.
Notice the `✗` at the beginning of the line. The CLI tool does input validation, so if you 
provide a valid timestamp, the `x` disappears:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also notice that the timestamp is in UTC. Please make sure you have converted the time from your timezone to UTC.
```

```shell
✔ Enter the block activation UTC datetime in 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS' format: 2023-03-31 14:00:00
```

The timestamp must be in the **future**, so make sure you use such a 
timestamp should you be running this tutorial after `2023-03-31 14:00:00` ;-) .

> It's your **local** timestamp, by the way.

Reviewer 2: but the prompt says UTC, which timezone is it then?

Author: Yeah sorry, it's UTC

After you provided the valid timestamp, proceed with the precompile specific configurations:

```shell
The chosen block activation time is 2023-03-31 14:00:00
Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ← 
? Add 'adminAddresses'?: 
  ▸ Yes
    No
```

> The addresses added in this section allow to add other admins and/or add enabled addresses 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The addresses added in this section will be enabled to add other admins and/or add enabled addresses 
```

Author: This will also result in passive mode warnings

Reviewer 2: How about changing to the following?
```
This will enable the addresses added in this section to add other admins and/or add enabled addresses 
```

Author: ok changed accordingly

for transaction issuance.
The addresses provided in this tutorial are fake.

> **However, make sure you have control of the addresses respectively know who has 

Reviewer 2: Please use the proper https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions

> **However, make sure you have control of the addresses respectively know who has 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**However, make sure you or someone you trust have full control of the addresses.
```

> control over these addresses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> You might prevent your Subnet to make any progress if not.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, you might bring your Subnet to a halt.**
```

```

Add another one:

```shell
✔ Add
Add an address: 0xaaaabbbbccccddddeeeeffff1111222233334444
✔ Add
✔ Add an address: 0x1111222233334444aaaabbbbccccddddeeeeffff
```

Select `Preview` this time to confirm the list is correct:

```shell
✔ Preview
0. 0xaaaAbbBBCccCDDddEeEEFFfF1111222233334444
1. 0x1111222233334444aAaAbbBBCCCCDdDDeEeEffff
Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ← 
? Provide 'adminAddresses': 
  ▸ Add
    Delete
    Preview
    More Info
↓   Done
```

If it looks good, select `Done` to continue:

```shell
✔ Done
Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ← 
? Add 'enabledAddresses'?: 
  ▸ Yes
    No
```

Add one such enabled address, these are addresses which can issue transactions:

```shell
✔ Add
✔ Add an address: 0x55554444333322221111eeeeaaaabbbbccccdddd█
```

After you added this address, and selected `Done`, the tool asks if you want to 
add another precompile:

```shell
✔ Done
Use the arrow keys to navigate: ↓ ↑ → ← 
? Should we configure another precompile?: 
  ▸ No
    Yes
```

If you needed to add another one, you would select `Yes` here. The wizard would guide you
through the other available precompiles, excluding already configured ones.

> To not unnecessarily extend this tutorial, the assumption is you're done here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid making this tutorial long, the assumption is you're done here.
```

Select `No`, which ends the wizard.

This means you have successfully terminated the generation of the upgrade file,
often called upgrade bytes. The tool stores them internally.

:::warning

You shouldn't move files around manually.
Use the `export` and `import` commands to get access to the files

> if not needed in the context of the tool

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if not needed in the context of the tool.
```
I am not fully get what this sentence means, however.

Author: I meant to say that the export can be used also without the tool (i.e. just manually install the file to a node).
But I think we can just safely remove that sentence altogether.

:::

So at this point you can either:

* Deploy your upgrade bytes locally

> * Export your upgrade bytes to a file, for installation on a validator running on another machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Export your upgrade bytes to a file, for installation on a validator running on another machine
```

| node1 | testSubnet | http://0.0.0.0:9650/ext/bc/2YTRV2roEhgvwJz7D7vr33hUZscpaZgcYgUTjeMK9KH99NFnsH/rpc |
+-------+------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| node2 | testSubnet | http://0.0.0.0:9652/ext/bc/2YTRV2roEhgvwJz7D7vr33hUZscpaZgcYgUTjeMK9KH99NFnsH/rpc |
+-------+------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| node3 | testSubnet | http://0.0.0.0:9654/ext/bc/2YTRV2roEhgvwJz7D7vr33hUZscpaZgcYgUTjeMK9KH99NFnsH/rpc |
+-------+------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| node4 | testSubnet | http://0.0.0.0:9656/ext/bc/2YTRV2roEhgvwJz7D7vr33hUZscpaZgcYgUTjeMK9KH99NFnsH/rpc |
+-------+------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| node5 | testSubnet | http://0.0.0.0:9658/ext/bc/2YTRV2roEhgvwJz7D7vr33hUZscpaZgcYgUTjeMK9KH99NFnsH/rpc |
+-------+------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

There is only so much the tool can do here for you. 

> It installed the upgrade bytes *as-is* as you configured resp. provided them to the tool.

Reviewer 2: can you expand `resp.`?

You should verify yourself that the upgrades were actually installed correctly, 
for example issuing some transactions - mind the timestamp!.

> ## Apply the Upgrade to a Public Node (Fuji or Mainnet)

Reviewer: This hasn't been released yet, right? So we will need to hold this PR until we do?

Reviewer: I guess it's been merged, so we put it out as soon as we do our next release

Author: OK so I will leave in here, just we need to wait for the merge until avalanche-cli has a new release (upcoming) @yulin-dong

```

The instructions also show the content of your current upgrade file, so you can just 
select that if you wish.
Or actually export the file.

## Export the Upgrade File

If you have generated the upgrade file, you can export it:

```shell
avalanche subnet upgrade export testSubnet
✔ Provide a path where we should export the file to: /tmp/testSubnet-upgrade.json
```

Just provide a valid path to the prompt, and the tool exports the file there. 

```shell
avalanche subnet upgrade export testSubnet 
Provide a path where we should export the file to: /tmp/testSubnet-upgrade.json
Writing the upgrade bytes file to "/tmp/testSubnet-upgrade.json"...
File written successfully.
```

You can now take that file and copy it to validator nodes, see preceding instructions.

## Import the Upgrade File

You or someone else might have generated the file elsewhere, or on another machine.
And now you want to install it on the validator machine, using Avalanche-CLI.

You can import the file:

```shell
avalanche subnet upgrade import testSubnet
Provide the path to the upgrade file to import: /tmp/testSubnet-upgrade.json
```

> An existing file would be overwritten.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Existing file with the same path and filename would be overwritten.
```
